---
layout: post
title: Untitled
---

I wrote the following on my <popular blogging platform which will remain unnamed> back in January, at the start of my second quarter enrolled in Northwestern's Master's in Computer Science program. I thought I'd also post it here because it's relevant. 

> everyone knows that the technology industry (more specifically, the technology side of the technology industry) is dominated by men. this gender imbalance is very much present in all of the computer science classes I’ve taken so far. to me, it was just a simple fact I rarely paid attention to. occasionally, I would count the percentage of women in a given CS class. it was almost always less than 20%. if anything, this made me feel unique, and perhaps more fond of the other girls in the class since we were, undoubtedly, in the minority. in other words, I generally accepted - maybe even embraced - this lopsided ratio.<br><br>
last week before the start of class, I overheard a guy asking his friend who his partner was for another class. this friend told him it was the girl who was sitting next to him, to which the other guy responded, “why would you be partners with a girl?!"<br><br>
yesterday, my projects class had a meeting, and my assigned partner, who was a male, told me that he wasn’t going to be working with me because he chose a different project. of course, it could be that the other project interested him more, but because of what happened last week, I can’t brush off the thought that his decision might’ve been partially driven by my gender. <br><br>
this is the first time I have encountered discrimination as a female in tech.<br><br>
–<br>
I stepped out of my programming languages class today to refill my water bottle. because I re-entered through the back door, I had to walk the entire length of the classroom to get to my seat in the front. scanning the room of ~80 students, I noticed there were hardly any other girls. once again, the class was dominated by guys. whereas before I would have been amused, today I felt anxious. 